Now the next thing that you'll need to think about is your goal amount.
So that's what you're going to aim for for your project.
Now we already spoke earlier in the algorithm section about creating a goal that's reasonable and feasible
to be achieved maybe within the first 48 hours.
But let's drill down a little bit deeper in how you can figure out the exact number to go for.
So the rough calculation that you need to make is how much it's going to cost to create a single unit
plus your buffer to guard against any unknown unknowns.
Right.
Things that might happen that you haven't predicted that will cost you and then you multiply that by
your reach.
As in how many email contacts have you got.
How big is your social following etc. and that gives you a rough estimate of how much you should make
your goal.
So the first thing you have to do is make a list of all the costs that are involved in creating manufacturing
packaging and delivering your product.
Now be really careful about offering international shipments as we found out there are some countries
where it's almost impossible to ship to.
And we were really grateful that we had bankers from all over the world.
But we had to ship something to a country where there was no postcode.
It was a real headache.
So in Kickstarter and in indigo you can limit where you are willing to ship to by country.
You can limit it to one country or a couple or handful however many you like.
So do some research about the delivery for each of these countries and try to limit that country number
down.
So it makes your distribution a lot easier.
Well the other thing is create a list of all your expenses so there's no expense that's too small if
your campaign becomes a huge hit and you have maybe a thousand people or ten thousand people who are
backing you then even the expenses are really small like packaging tape become really big so don't neglect
any part of creating the product work how the unit costs and include even all the small costs as well.
Now the other thing that's really important is to add a cushion.
Now this is something that will protect you against the unknown unknowns that will definitely happen
at some point during your campaign.
So there are costs that you can't predict and it's always a good idea to just add a small financial
buffer.
You don't end up out of pocket and unable to deliver to your backers.
Now the other thing you need to work out is the size of your megaphone.
What I mean by that.
How many people are you able to reach.
Now remember that e-mail open rates are not 100 percent.
In fact you'd be lucky to get maybe 40 percent open rates.
So think about how many people you have on your list how many people's emboss you can reach and how
many people are likely to open it when it's something that is promotional in nature and you can work
out the size of your megaphone and how far you can reach.
So this is really good tool from Indigo that helps you work out what your goal amount should be based
on your email list size.
So you simply enter in your email list and then you enter your average contributions.
So this single product price and it helps you work out what your goal might be.
Now it's a very rough estimate.
It's basically saying that you're going to convert about 5 percent of your email list which is quite
generous.
And then it multiplies it by the cost of your product to give you that number.
So you can actually just do it on a calculator.
You don't actually need the spreadsheet.
But it's just a nice thing to keep in your Kickstarter planner spreadsheet.
Now there are some harrowing tales from the past and one of them is hey her razor company.
Believe it or not.
It's called Zafira and they've launched two campaigns on Kickstarter.
Both campaigns raising about five hundred thousand dollars.
Now that's not a small amount.
But in both times they actually didn't get a single cent because their funding is all or nothing.
Now their goal was really really ambitious.
It was a million dollars and that is a big goal even if you run it for 60 days.
Even if you got all the press in the world which they did it doesn't mean that you can reach that high
and it might be that for them creating a sapphire blade razor only works when they have you know a million
dollars in cash.
Maybe you know they need to buy the sapphire mine or whatever their reason may be.
But you have to be really careful about trying to aim for such a large goal.
In most cases you should aim for a goal that you can comfortably reach and then you're usually going
to get better results than aiming too high.